discrimination against women leads to
preventable deaths and injuries during
pregnancy and childbirth each year
hundreds of thousands of women and girls
died and millions more become disabled
as a result of complications during
pregnancy and childbirth
I am sure if we had got transportation
on time today my wife and child would be
alive all vehicles in the village were
engaged the nearest hospital is major
pool which is 50 kilometers away Dyer
Rams wife Pushpa viel died after
developing complications in labor
Pushpa was forced to walk 50 kilometers
from her remote village in India's
northern province of Uttar Pradesh to
the nearest hospital because of a lack
of transport Pushpa and her baby died
before her family could get help
oh gollu sir my wife was pregnant was in
labor pain but we could not find any
vehicle to go to the hospital somehow
when we reached the hospital it was too
late and my wife passed away a grieving
diarama returned home to take care of
their only surviving child now
motherless an estimated 25,000 women
died during pregnancy and childbirth in
the province of Uttar Pradesh every year
just like Pushpa
many women succumb during childbirth
because of poverty lack of access to
emergency maternal health care and
information globally the figure is
estimated at more than 500,000 the UN
Millennium Development Goals aim to
reduce maternal mortality by
three-quarters by 2015 UN Human Rights
chief Navi Pillay says it's unacceptable
that women continue to die giving birth
she says maternal mortality is a human
rights issue discrimination against
women causes deaths in pregnancy and
childbirth which could be prevented
women should have a say in the decisions
that affect their sexual and
reproductive health the new study by the
UN Human Rights office produced at the
request of the UN Human Rights Council
found that the risks associated with
pregnancy and childbirth are not
unavoidable natural disadvantage
they're the result of the unjust unequal
treatment of women and cause more deaths
and disabilities among women than any
other factors among men of fertile age
certainly when issues of Rights are
taken into account to complement those
health care services we should be able
to make an impact on serving the lives
of women the data and evidence have
shown that where education has been
received or where girls have received
adequate education they are empowered to
make choices and decisions that affect
their health including that which
protects them from maternal mortality I
take it as in three elements a health
issue a development issue and a rights
issue so certainly it may not have been
emphasized but the issue of rice and the
empowerment of women is very important
in air force to prevent maternal deaths
statistics show the greatest majority of
maternal deaths occur in Africa in Asia
because of a general lack of
infrastructure very few skilled health
workers and health clinics few public
transport services and poor or
non-existent roads but the problem isn't
unique to the developing world maternal
mortality is a crisis without borders
while it's true that 99% of maternal
mortality occurs in the developing world
in the global South there are important
factors that lead to high maternal
mortality in developed countries in
amnesties recent report on the United
States for example we see some of the
same problems that plagued developing
countries health systems a lack of
available accessible economically and
physically
and culturally acceptable and quality
healthcare that can save women's lives
not far from diaramas village women have
got together to look after mothers to be
with the sole objective of saving lives
whenever a woman in our village gets
pregnant we go to see Hind educator
about vaccinations people should
cooperate more so that many pregnant
women can be helped these volunteers
have little knowledge but if we educate
them more there will be of great help to
the villages behind the maternal
mortality statistics are millions of
personal tragedies like Diane's wife
improvements in women's rights and
maternal health will have an economic
and social impact on families reaching
far beyond the lives of women under
threat I've worked here for the past
two-and-a-half years from when the
government of India launched the rural
health safety mission on the whole
country there is a lot of improvement in
women's health
pregnant women lives are saved before
and after delivery statistics show that
maternal mortality rate is decreasing
every mother counts where the numbers
are decreasing or not experts say when
death is preventable one death is one
too many
let women and girls have access to the
right information enjoy the benefits of
scientific progress and the highest
attainable standard of Health let them
participate in decision-making processes
that affect their pregnancy and delivery
if we do that the lives of many
thousands of women and girls will be
saved each year